It all starts with the batter. Too thick and they will be gluggy and undercooked on the inside. Too runny, and the pancakes will spread out and won’t fluff up. I like to test the batter with my spoon or ladle, lifting it gently above the rim of the bowl. It has to be thick BUT able to run slowly and nicely off of the spoon. A couple of lumps is okay, but I do like to smooth out my batter as much as I can gently with a wire whisk.
Preheat your good quality, non stick pan or griddle on medium heat first. Once it’s hot, lower the heat down to low-medium heat. Wait about two minutes. This part is crucial and so worth it. Lightly grease the pan with a small amount of butter (yes, even on non stick pans), and wipe away any excess butter with a sheet of paper towel.
Use a 1/4 cup measuring cup to pour your batter so you get perfect, evenly sized pancakes. Start pouring from the middle, then continue pouring slowly in a circular motion so that the batter spreads into perfect round shapes.
Allow the pancakes to cook properly! Don’t rush them on high heat, or flip them too early. Let that under-side cook to a beautiful golden brown colour, and when bubbles start forming on top and around the surface (batter side), they are ready to flip.
How to get that flip perfected without creating lopsided pancakes? Grab a good, plastic spatula and slide it underneath the pancake. Use your WRIST to gently flip them instead of using your whole arm. You’ll know what I mean when you’re in front of your pan ready to flip. THIS makes a HUGE difference.